# AppLib

An Application Component Library (short AppLib) which makes it easy to create fancy GUIs.

(Note the documentation is work-in-progress. For now, please refer to the docstrings in the source code or checkout the [sample program](tests/manual) built using the latest version of AppLib)

## Features

- Pre-made GUI pages and widgets makes it quick to get up and running.
    - You can, of course, also make your own widgets (or customize existing)

- Easy configuration management. AppLib takes care of:
    - Writing the config to disk
    - Loading (and verifying) from disk
    - Repairing the config on disk (e.g. due to new config version)
    - Config backups (e.g. when making breaking changes to the file)
    - Synchronizing GUI settings with the config on disk.

- Automatically generate a settings page based on one or more config files.
    - With options to change layout/design (or build your own).

- Simple, but powerful logging system
    - Write your message to a log file, notify the user in the GUI, or send it directly to a process' terminal widget - all from one line of code!

- Custom-built thread manager, making streaming of a process's output to the GUI a breeze to implement.
    - Also supports writing to a log file (any IO device).

## Supported Platforms

AppLib supports both Windows and Linux and is tested on Windows 11 and CachyOS (Arch Linux) using Wayland.

MacOS may work but hasn't been tested.

## Future Work

- Ability to natively use config files not generated by AppLib.
    - This would make it very easy to make GUI wrappers for existing CLI tools.

- Add additional GUI widgets commonly used.
    - Searchable settings page.
    - (more to come)

- Investigate usability of including high-performance datastructures for common tasks, e.g., a trie. Preferably in C++ or Rust.

- Investigate feasability of using [codon](https://github.com/exaloop/codon) to compile AppLib to machine code.
    - If it proves infeasible, checkout [nuitka](https://nuitka.net/) instead.

## Troubleshooting

### Tooltips on Wayland are behaving weird

When tooltips are created, they're not aligned to the widget they represent, and an error message is shown in the terminal: `This plugin does not support setting window opacity`.

According to [this forum post](https://forum.qt.io/topic/158586/qt6-qpropertyanimation-this-plugin-does-not-support-setting-window-opacity/2), it is caused by:

> The answer is that it wasn't implemented. The private class QWaylandWindow does not overload the setOpacity method so the base class implementation is run and does nothing but display that message.

#### Workaround

On Linux Wayland, start your program with the environment variable: `QT_QPA_PLATFORM=xcb`.

## Acknowledgements

AppLib builds on top of:

- [PyQt-Fluent-Widgets](https://github.com/zhiyiYo/PyQt-Fluent-Widgets)
- [PyQt6](https://pypi.org/project/PyQt6/)
- [Pydantic](https://pydantic.dev/)
